Disadvantages
--------------------
1.- These techniques do not give the impression of parallel computing of quantum.  - In background noise MFCC doesn’t perform precise results and its efficiency could be influenced by the number of filters 

2. This type of method of recognition module does not take under consideration the inherent speech variability.   - Choosing the appropriate reference template is a difficult task. -which is why, the majority of modern systems of ASR replace this method (DTW) by a stochastic method like HMM.

3.The VQ that it does not take into account the temporal evolution of signals because all the vectors are mixed up.

4.The search direction is not obvious and it tends to have fast and early convergence in mid optimum points.  -This technique cannot accommodate with the problems of non-coordinate system.

5.Performance of the system decreases in the case of using GMM, and when training and testing environments are different.

6.The VQ that it does not take into account the temporal evolution of signals because all the vectors are mixed up.

7.- The search direction is not obvious and tendency to a fast and premature convergence in mid optimum points. -The VQ that it does not take into account the temporal evolution of signals because all the vectors are mixed up.

8.- Background noise MFCC does not give accurate results

9.-   Advanced adaptive filter is required for removing white noise especially for home appliances. - Deep Learning require a large amount of data and powerful computing resources

10.-This approach cannot work out the problems of non-coordinate system. - In background noise MFCC does not give accurate results.



Advantages
----------------

1.These  techniques  combine  parallel,  fast QNN Computation with  an ability  of IPSO’ global  optimizing,  QNN’  computation quantity of training process is small.  - The most significant benefit of the IPSO-QNN is its fast recognition. -  IPSO  considers  precocious  convergence phenomenon,  when  it  is  utilized  for training  QNN,  the  model  predicts  more accurately  via  fully  exploiting  the capability of global optimization of PSO. -  MFCC  captures  main  characteristics  of phones in speech with low complexity.

2.-  Combining  these  techniques  led  to increase  speed  of  recognition  for  the isolated  word,  reduced  storing  space  for the  reference  template  and  higher predictive accuracy. -  DTW  algorithm  is  easy  and  common hardware  is  required,  so  it  is  a  more mature voice recognition algorithm. - DTW algorithm is to  find an optimal time warping  function  which  minimizes  the total amount of the cumulative distortion. -  WFCC  have  good  recognition performance and noise immunity.

3.- These techniques provided higher amount of correlation between sub band outputs.  - Improve the efficiency of both MFCC and inverted MFCC by GF.  -  Using  VQ  with  MFCC  and  Inverted  are capable  of  detecting  the  precise  speaker from  considerably  shorter  samples  of speech,  which is  why,  it is  well applicable in real-time applications. - The VQ is high accurate, simple, used less memory, less preparing of test data. 

4.- The Results have a good precision, despite the relative randomness of the society of speakers. - Use of PSO method resulted in: Simple implementation, easy parallelization for concurrent processing, a rather small number of algorithm parameters and highly sufficient global search. - PSO can be a sufficient tool of optimization for non-linear continuous optimizing issues and combinatorial problems of optimization.

5.-  The  Bayes  classification  represents  an approach of supervised learning and also a statistical classification approach. -  Bayes  classification  can  provide  a  good viewpoint  for  the  understanding  and evaluation  of  several  learning  algorithms. It  obtains  explicit  possibilities  for hypothesis  and  it  has  robustness  against noise in the input data.

6.-VQ is a highly sufficient spectral information representation in speech signals by vector mapping (feature extraction of input signal) from large vector space to a finite number of areas in the space which is referred to as clusters. - combining MFCC and Distance Minimum algorithm produced the optimal Performance and precise results. - HMM is capable of identifying the most widely utilized isolated word

7.- Combining between IPSO and  HMM gives high accuracy compare with  NN,HMM and PSO  - IP-HMM is helpful in speech identification that  is  achieved  via  efficiently  finding optimum  or  near  optimum  solutions  in wide  search  spaces  of  code  vector  from code-book.  - IPSO achieved global optimization ability

8.- The VQ has greatly helpful to reduce the amount of computation and storage. - The VQ is high accurate, simple and less preparing of test data.

9.- Deep Learning use small memory space, and improves the rate of identification. - Adaptive MFCC eliminated noise in every band with no damage to the audio via eliminating the small size noise via advanced smoothing in

10.-The advantage of APSO: They simplify the computation and present good results of recognition along with reduction in time utilization. 

11.Speaker recognition system is reliable.